Moby dick or the whale by herman melville one looming call me ishmael some years ago. Never mind how long precisely having little or no money in my purse. Nothing particularly. Interesting on. Sure. I thought I would sail about a little and see the watery part of the world. It's a way I have of driving off the spleen and regulating the circulation whenever I find myself growing grim about the mouth whenever it's a damp drizzly november in my soul. Whenever I find myself involuntarily pausing before coffin warehouses, bringing up the rear of every funeral I meet and especially whenever my hypos get such an upper hand of me that it requires a strong moral principle to prevent me from deliberately stepping into the street and methodically knocking people's hats off then in time to get to sea. As soon as I can. This is my substitute for pistol and ball with a philosophical flourish cato throws himself upon his sword. I quietly take to the ship. There's nothing surprising in this if they but knew it almost all men in the degree some time or other cherish very needs and feelings towards the ocean with me then is your insular city of the manhattans belted round by wolves as indian isles by coral reefs comme surrounded with her for right and left the streets take you water wood it's extreme downtown is the battery where that noble mole is washed by way and cooled by breezes which a few previous well acted and ok. The crowd of water gases there circulate the city of a dreamy sabbath afternoon go from qualies hook to coin to slip and from thence by whitehall northward what you see posted like silent sentinels all around the town stand thousands upon thousands of mortal men six in ocean rivers some leaning against the pile some seated upon the pier heads some looking over the bullocks of ships from china. Some higher loft in the rigging as if striving to get a still better sea would peep but these are all landsman of week days. Pent up in lath and plaster tied to counters nails to ventures clinched the desks. How then is this the green fields gone? What do they hear book? He come more crowds pacing straight for the water and seemingly bound for a dive strange. Nothing will content them but the extremest limit of the land loitering under the shady lea on the warehouses will not suffice. No. The us get just as neither water as they possibly can without falling in and [...] ten miles of the leagues inland all they come from lane and alice streets and avenues east and west yet. The old unit tell me this magnetic, virtue of the needles of the compasses of all those ships attract them. Did it. Once more say you're in the country in some high land of lakes take almost any possible and ten to one it cures you down in the dal and leave you there by a pool in the stream. There is magic in it. That the most absentminded of men be punished in his deepest reveries stand that man on these things site going and he will infallibly due to water if water that be in all that region should you be assist in the great american desert. Try this experiment if your caravan happened to be supplied with a metaphysical professor. Yes. And everyone knows meditation and water over but he's an artist. He designs to paint you the dreamiest shadiest quietest most enchanting that a romantic landscape in all the value of the saco. What is the chief dimon employes there on his trees each with a hollow trunk as if [...] hermit and the critics were within and here sleeps his meta and there set is cattle and up from yonder cottage as a sleepy smoke deep into distant woodlands. Wines amazing way reaching overlapping spurs of mountains bathed in a hillside blue but though the picture lies has tron and though this pine tree shakes down its size like leaves on this shepherd said yet. All terrain unless the shop its eye was I upon the magic stream before him go visit the prairies in june when the schools on scores of miles you wait me demons what is the one chan one thing? There's not a drop of water there niagara attractive and would you travel your thousand miles to see it? Why did the poor part of tennessee and suddenly receiving two handfuls of silver deliberate whether to buy him a coat which he sadly needed or invest his money in a pedestrian trip to rockaway beach. Why is almost every robust, healthy boy with the robust healthy sold in him at some time or other crazy to go to see y upon your first voyage as a passenger. Did you yourself feel such a mystical vibration when first told that you and your ship were now out of site of land. Why did the old persians hold the sea. Holy why did the greeks give you a separate day and own brother of jove surely all this is not without meaning and still deeper the meaning of that story of mess because he could not grasp the tormenting mild image. So in the pontine lunged into and was drowned but that same image we are sole in all rivers and oceans. It is the image of the graspable phantom of life. And this is a key to [...] now when I see that I'm in the habit of going to see whenever I begin to grow hazy about the eyes and begin to be over conscious of my long. I do not mean to have it inferred that I ever go to see is a passenger for to go as a passenger. You must needs have a purse and a purse but iran if you have something in it besides passengers get sick grow quarrelsome don't sleep of night. Don't enjoy themselves much [...] a general thing. No, I never got [...] pass. No though I am something of the sold. Do I have to see as a common or a captain or a cook? I abandoned the glory and distinction of such offices to those who like them. For my part, I abominate honorable respectable toils trials and tribulations of every kind whatsoever. It's quite as much as I can do to take care of myself without taking care of ships box bring schooners and not up and that's the going is a cook. I confess there is a considerable glory in that to cook being a sort of office the on shipboard get some I never fancied broiling files. So once broiled judiciously butted and judge matically salted in pepper. There's no one who will see more respectfully not say reverentially a file and I will it is at the idea tri doings of the old egyptians upon broiled ives and rested reels that you see the mommys of the creatures in the huge bag houses the pyramids. No. When I go to see I go a simple sailor right before the mast plan down into the forecastle a lot there to the royal masthead true. They rather order me about some and make me jump from spot to spot like a gross over in a man. And at first this sort of thing is unpleasant enough it up [...] is one sense of honor particularly if you come of an old established family in the land the van resellers randal. So hard commutes and more than all. I just previous to putting your hand into the top pot, you have been lording it as [...] country schoolmaster making the tallest boy stand in or you. The transition region is you from school master to sather and requires a strong decoction of seneca and the stoics to enable you to grin and bear it. But even this was often time what of it, some hunks of a sea captain orders me to get a broom and sweep down the deck. What does that indignity amount to weigh in in the scale of the new testament? Do you think the archangel gabriel? In anything? The less of me because I promptly and respectfully obey that old hunks in that particular instance who ain't a slave tell me that. Well then however the old sea captains may order me about however they make something bunch me about. I have [...] satisfaction of knowing that it's all right. Everybody else is one way or other served in much the same way in a physical or metaphysical point of view that is and so the universal comp is passed around and all hands should rub each other shoulder blades and be content. Again I've always go to see is a sale because they make a point of paying me for my trouble whereas they never pay passengers [...] single pane [...] on the country passengers themselves must pay and is all the difference in the world between pain and being paid. The other thing is that the most uncomfortable affection that the two acts entailed upon us but being paid what we can be with it. The activity with which a man receives money is really more considering that we so earnestly believe money to be the root of all earthly ills and that I never count on a money man into heaven. A if we can sign ourselves to petition finally I always go to see as a sailor because of the wholesome exercise and pure air of the forecastle deck for in this world had win a formal president and wins from a stun. That is if you never violate the pythagorean maxim so for the most part, the commodore on the code gets his atmosphere [...] second hand from the sales on the forecast. He thinks he breathed first but not so in much the same way to the commonality lead their leaders in many other things at the same time the lead is little suspected the web or it was that after having repeatedly smelt to see as a merchant sailor. I should now take it [...] my head to go on a wailing for age this the invisible life of through the fates who has the constant surveillance of me and secretly dogs me and influences me in some unaccountable way. He can better answer than anyone else and doubtless by going on this whaling voyage formed part of the grand program of providence that was drawn up a long time ago. It came in as a sort of brief interviewed and solo between more extensive performances. I take it that this possibile must have run something like this grand contested election for the president [...] the united states whaling voyage by one ismail a battle in afghanistan. So I can't tell what was exactly that those stage manages the fate put me down for this shabby. Part of a whaling voyage when others are set down for iverson part and tragedies. I'm short and easy parts and gentil comedies and drawing parts in forces. I cannot tell why this was exactly yet. Now that I recall all the circumstances. I can see a little into the springs and motives which being cunningly present to me under various disguises induced me to set about performing that part. I did besides consoling me into the divisions. It was a choice resulting from my own. Unbiased very will and discriminating judgment chief among these notice with the overwhelming idea of the great way of himself such portents and mysterious monster rips all my curiosity then the wild and distant seas where he rolled his island but the undeliverable name of the perils of the whale these with all the attending marvels of a thousand patagonian sites and sounds helps to sway me to my wish with a man but such things would not have been inducements. But as to me, I am tormented with an everlasting itch for things remote. I love to sail forbidden seas and land on barbarous coasts not ignoring. What is good? I am quick to the sea horror and could still be social with it. [...] they let me sensitive but well be on friendly terms with all the inmates of the place. [...] large in by reason of these things then the whaling voyage was welcome the great floodgates of the wonderworld one open and in the wild conceits that swayed me to my purpose on to the lifted into my inmost. So in processions of the wall and mid most of the mall one grand who did phantom like a snow hill in. 