Moby Dick or the whale by Herman Melville Chapter 1 Lumines Comet Ishmail. Some years ago. Never mind how long precisely. Having little or no money in my purse. And nothing particularly interest on shore. I thought I would sail about a little and see the watery part of the world. It's all I have of driving off the spleen. And regulating the circulation. Whenever I find myself growing grim about the mammoth. Whenever it's a damp drizzly November in my soul. Whenever I find myself involuntarily pausing before coffin warehouses. And bringing up the rear of every funeral I meet and especially whenever my hypos get such an upper hand of me. That it requires a strong moral principle to prevent me from deliberately stepping into the street. And methodically knocking people's hats off. Then I count it high time to get to see as soon as I can. This is my substitute for pistol and ball with a philosophical flourish. Cato throws himself upon his sword. I quietly take to the ship. Theres nothing surprising in this. If they but knew it almost all men in their degrees. Some time or other cherish very nearly those feelings towards the ocean with me. There now is your insular city of the Manhattans belted round by wharves as Indian arts by coral reefs. Commerce surrounds it with her surf right and left the streets take you water would its extreme down town is the battery where that noble mole is washed by waves and cooled by breezes. Which a few hours previous were out of sight of land. Look at the crowds of water gazers there. Circumambulation the city of a dreamy Sabbath afternoon go from coleus hook to quanties snip and from thence by Whitehorn northward. What do you see. Posted like silent sentinels all around the town standing thousands upon thousands of mortal men fixed in ocean reveries. Some leaning against the spiled some seated upon the pier heads some looking over the bulwarks of ships from China. Some higher aloft in the rigging as if striving to get a still better see would peep. But these are all Lanzmann of weekdays pent up in Leatham plaster tied to counters nailed to benches clinched desks. How then is this other green fields gone. What do they hear. But look up. Here come more crowds pacing straight for the water and seemingly bound for a dive. Strange. Nothing will content them but the extremist limit of the land loitering under the shady Lea of yonder warehouses will not suffice. No. They must get just as neither water as they possibly can without falling in. And there they stand miles of them leagues. Inland as all they come from lanes and alleys streets and avenues north east south and west. Yet here they all unite. Tell me theres a magnetic virtue of the needles of the compasses of all those ships attract and the. Once more. So are in the country in some high land of leaks. Take almost any path you please and ten to one it carries you down in the dale and leaves you there by a pool in the stream. There is magic in it at the most absent minded of men. Be plunged in his deepest reveries stand that man on his Vogues City's feet are going and he will infallibly lead you to water. If water there be in all that region should you ever be of thirst in the Great American Desert. Try this experiment if your caravan happened to be supplied with a metaphysical professor. Yes and everyone knows meditation and water are widdy to forever. He is an artist. He desires to paint you the dreamiest shadiest as most enchanting bit of romantic landscape in all the valley of the Saker. What is the chief element he employs. There stand his trees each with hollow trunk as if a hermit and a crucifix were within. And here sleeps his meadow and sleep is Catal. And up from yonder cottage goes a sleepy smoke. Deep into distant woodlands Wein's a mazy way reaching to overlapping spurs of mountains bathed in the hillside blue. But though the picture lies thus tranced and though this pine tree shakes down its size like leaves upon this ship its head. Yet all were vain unless the shepherds eye were fixed upon the magic stream before him go visit the prairies in June when four scores on scores of miles you wade knee deep among tiger lilies. What is the one chanting water is not a drop of water there. Were Niagara Agora but I cataract of sand. Would you travel your thousand miles to see it. Why did the poor poet of Tennessee suddenly receiving two handfuls of silver deliberate whether to buy a coat which he sadly needed or invest his money in a pedestrian trip to Rockaway Beach. Why is almost every robust healthy boy with a robust healthy soul in him at some time or other. Crazy to go to see why upon your first voyage as a passenger did you yourself feel such a mystical vibration when first told that you and your ship were now out of sight of land. Why did the old Persians hold the sea wholly. Why did the Greeks give it a separate ditty and own brother of Jove. Surely all this is not without meaning. And still deeper the meaning of that story of Narcissus who because he could not grasp the tormenting mild image he saw in the fountain plunged into it and was drowned. But that same image we are so will see in all rivers and oceans. It is the image of the ungraspable Phantom of life. And this is the key to it all. Now when I say that I am in the habit of going to sea whenever I begin to grow hazy about the eyes and begin to be over conscious of my lungs. I do not mean to have it inferred that I ever go to sea as a passenger for to go as a passenger. You must needs have a purse and a purse is put a rag unless you have something in it. Besides passengers get seasick grow quarrelsome dont sleep at nights dont enjoy themselves much as a general thing. No I never go as a passenger. Nor though I am something of a sort. Do I ever go to see a Commodore or a captain or a cook. I abandon the glory and distinction of such offices to those who like them. For my part I abominate all honorable respectable toils trials and tribulations of every kind. Whatsoever. It's quite as much as I can do to take care of myself without taking care of ships box. Schooner's and whatnot. And as ongoing as a cog. Though I confess there is a considerable glory in thater Cook being a sort of officer on shipboard yet somehow I never fancied broiling fowl's though once broiled judiciously buttered and judged magically salted and peppered there there's no one who will speak more respectfully. Not to say reverentially of a broiled fowl than I will it is out of the idolatrous datings of the old Egyptians upon broiled bits and roasted river horse that you see the mummies of those creatures in their huge big houses the pyramids. No when I go to sea I go as a simple sailor right before the mast plumb down into the fore castle aloft there to the royal masthead. True it rather ordered me about Sahlman make me jump from spa to spa like a grasshopper in a main meadow. At first this sort of thing is unpleasant enough. It touches one's sense of honour particularly if you come of an old established family in the land. The van ran Sillars all Randolph so hard it can use and more than all its just previous to putting your hand into the tar pot. You have been lauding it as a country schoolmaster making the tallest boys stand in all of you. The transition is a key Monash you from the schoolmaster to saler and requires a strong decoction of Seneca and the Stoics to enable you to grin and bear it. But even this wears time. What of it if some old hunks of a sea captain orders me to get a broom and sweep down the decks. What does that indignity amount to Wade. I mean in the scales of the New Testament. Do you think the archangel Gabriel thinks anything the less of me because I promptly and respectfully obey that old hunks in that particular instance. Who ain't a slave tell me that. Well then however the old sea captains may order me about. However they may thump and punch me about I have the satisfaction of knowing that it's all right that everybody else is one way or other served in much the same way either in a physical or a metaphysical point of view that is. And so the universal thump is passed around and all hands should rub each other's shoulder blades and be content. Again I always go to sea as a sailor because they make a point of paying me for my trouble whereas they never pay passengers a single penny that I've heard of. On the contrary passengers themselves must pay. And there's all the difference in the world between paying and being paid. The act of paying is perhaps the most uncomfortable affliction that the two auctioned these entailed upon us but being paid what will compare with it. The brain activity with which a man receives money is really marvellous considering that we so earnestly believe money to be the root of all earthly ills and that on no account can a moneyed man enter heaven. Ah how cheerfully we can sign ourselves to perdition. Finally I always go to sea as a sailor because of the wholesome exercise and pure air of the fore castle deck. For as in this world headwinds are far more prevalent than winds from a Stern. That is if you never violate the Pythagoras and Maxim. So for the most part the commodore on the quarter deck gets his atmosphere at second hand from the sailors on the forecast. He thinks he breeds at first but not so. Much the same way with a commonality lead their leaders in many other things at the same time that leaders little suspected. But wherefore it was that after having repeatedly snuffed the sea as a merchant sailor I should now take it into my head to go on a whaling voyage. This the invisible police officer of the fates who has the constant surveillance of me and secretly dogs me and influences me in some unaccountable way he can better answer than anyone else. And doubtless my going on this whaling voyage formed part of the grand programme of Providence that we've drawn up a long time ago. It came in as a sort of brief interlude and solo between more extensive performances. I take it that this part of the bill must have run something like this grand contested election for the presidency of the United States. Whaling voyage by one Ishmail. Bloody battle in Afghanistan. Though I cannot tell why it was exactly that those stage managers the fates put me down for this shabby part of a whaling voyage when others were set down for magnificent parts and tragedies and short and easy parts in genteel comedies and joining parts in farces. Though I cannot tell why this was exactly. Yet now that I recall all the circumstances I can see a little into the springs and motives which being cunningly presented to me under various disguises induced me to set about performing that part I did besides cajoling me into the delusion that it was a choice resulting from my own unbiased free will and discriminating judgment. Chief among these motives was the overwhelming idea of the great whale himself. Such a portentous and mysterious monster roused all my curiosity. Then the wild and distant seas where he rolled his island bulk the undeliverable nameless perils of the way all these. With all the attending marvels of 1000 Patagonians sights and sounds helped to sway me to my wish. With other men. Perhaps such things would not have been inducements. But as for me I am tormented with an everlasting itch for things remote. I love to sail forbidden seas and lament on barbarous coasts. Not ignoring what is good. I am quick to perceive a horror and could still be social with it would they let me since it is but well to be on friendly terms with all the inmates of the place. One lodges in. By reason of these things then. The whaling voyage was welcome. The great floodgates of the wonder world swung open. And in the wild conceits that swayed me to my purpose. Two and two there floated into my inmost soul endless processions of the whale and midmost of them all. One grand hooded phantom like a snow hill in the air. 